# quantum_explorers_23-24_ibm
Repository of activities carried out at the Quantum Explorers event 2023 - 24. The event is beginner-friendly but difficulty level increases as achievements are unlocked. The material covers approximately 50–84 hours of learning over 7 months.

About event: Quantum Explorers is our self-paced, game-based quantum computing learning program for high school students and above. The theme of the learning journey is space exploration. You’ll embark on an interstellar journey as the captain of a starship and grow proficiency in quantum computing along the way. Schedule: The program ran from July 2023 to February 2024. The total materials cover approximately 50 to 85 hours during these 7 months. The level of involvement depends on the participant.

In the "badge" folder, you can view all the badges obtained during the event as a reward for completing all the labs. In the "notebook" folder, you can access all the activities developed during the event, where each one presents both theoretical and practical challenges, increasing in complexity with each subsequent activity, culminating in Lab 7. Lab 7 serves as a kind of intersection of the knowledge used in the preceding 7 labs.

- badge 1 - Laboratory 1 unlocks the 'Captain - Quantum Computing and Qiskit 101' badge. This notebook contains multiple-choice and code-based questions. Among the questions, there are inquiries about how quantum gates work, entangled states, quantum teleportation, and circuits in the GHZ style.
- badge 2 - Laboratory 2 unlocks the 'Prime Ambassador Badge - Discord Activity & Community Events,' which refers to the task of interacting with study groups and assisting other participants. This was the last badge I obtained, but it was very rewarding to help other participants, getting to know them and creating deep learning connections.
- badge 3 - Laboratory 3 unlocks the 'Eminent Scientist Badge - Quantum Women Invited Talks,' which is an initiative by IBM that provides visibility for women in the field of quantum computing.
- badge 4 - Laboratory 4 unlocks the 'Time Traveler - Quantum Error Correction & Mitigation' badge, which includes theoretical and practical questions about error, error mitigation, and error suppression, utilizing Qiskit tools for this purpose.
- badge 5 - Laboratory 5 unlocks the 'Space Combatant - Quantum Machine Learning' badge, which includes theoretical and practical questions about Machine Learning, covering classical and quantum concepts regarding classifiers, ansatz, data mapping into circuits, and generative AI.
- badge 6 - Laboratory 6 unlocks the 'Expert Navigator - Quantum Optimization' badge, which includes theoretical and practical questions about combinatorial problems, NP-hard, maxcut, QUBO, and their relationship with the Ising problem. Additionally, it involves questions and implementations of hybrid variational algorithms such as VQE, QAOA on simulated and real hardware.
- badge 7 - The most challenging and difficult laboratory unlocks the "Supreme Observer - Quantum Explorers Qiskit Challenge" badge, where we face the challenge of retrieving information from a diary that fell into a black hole using entangled quantum particles created at the event horizon of a black hole. Here, we train a parameterized circuit to reconstruct a desired state and use a classical simulator to obtain the best parameters for our circuit. In this case, the desired state is the diary that Alice dropped into the black hole. In the end, we execute this on real hardware, mitigating errors to the maximum extent possible. This was a challenging laboratory and it was the point where I could help my colleagues the most during the event.

I am very grateful to have participated in this great event.